.TH SMUDGE 1

.SH NAME
smudge \- a general\-purpose, interpreted and object-oriented programming language.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsmudge \fR[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fBFile\fR    [\fIARGUMENT\fR]...
.br
\fBsmudge \fR[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fB\-\-stdin\fR [\fIARGUMENT\fR]...
.br
\fBsmudge \fR[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fB\-i\fR      [\fIARGUMENT\fR]...
\fBsmudge \fR[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fB\-I File\fR      [\fIARGUMENT\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsmudge\fR is a \fBS\fRimple, \fBM\fRulti platform, \fBU\fRser-friendly,
\fBD\fRynamically typed, \fBG\fRarbage-collected and \fBE\fRlegant
programming language written in pure C++11.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-compile\fR
.br
Create a \fBSMK\fR file which contains the compiled version of the program.
The output file is named after the \fBmain box\fR plus the suffix \fB.smk\fR.
.TP
\fB\-e \fIn\fR
.br
Set \fIn\fR as number of elements of the \fBstack\fR displayed when \fBerror messages\fR
are printed. If \fIn\fR is \fB0\fR, no elements are listed.
.TP
\fB\-D \fIdir\fR
.br
Add the directory \fIdir\fR to the \fBsearch paths\fR of the current runtime settings.
To set one or more directories as default search paths add them to the
\fBSMUDGE_PATH\fR environment variable.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.br
Show the list of options.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-stdin\fR
.br
Use \fBstdin\fR instead of reading from \fBfile\fR;
what comes next this option is given as argument to the program.
.TP
\fB\-I \fIfile\fR
Read bytecode from \fBSMK\fR file and execute it instead of reading unprocessed code;
what comes next this option is given as argument to the program.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-license\fR
.br
Show the Apache 2.0 license.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no\-stdlib\fR
.br
The Smudge Stardard Library (\fBSSL\fR) won't be used by the program.
.br
Anyway, the box \fBstd.lang\fR will be used internally by the interpreter
while working on strings, lists or tuples.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-show\-paths\fR
.br
Show the \fBsearch paths\fR of the current runtime settings.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-show\-all\fR
.br
Show the parsed \fBtokens\fR, the \fBbytecode\fR, the \fBsymbol table\fR and
all \fBtables of constants\fR. Useful for debug purposes.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR
.br
Show the number of \fBmilliseconds\fR passed from the start to the end of the program.
Useful for benchmarking.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.br
Show the version of the interpreter.
.TP
\fB\-wi\fR, \fB\-\-without-init\fR
.br
Do not run function \fBinit\fR of the main box.
.TP
\fB\-wm\fR, \fB\-\-without-main\fR
.br
Do not run function \fBmain\fR of the main box.
.TP
\fB\-wn\fR, \fB\-\-without-new\fR
.br
Do not run function \fBnew\fR of the main box.
.TP
\fB\-x \fIsize\fR
.br
Set \fIsize\fR as the initial allocated size, expressed in \fBitems\fR
of the function-stack of each thread. Value \fB0\fR sets the default.
.TP
\fB\-X \fIsize\fR
.br
Set \fIsize\fR as the maximum size, expressed in \fBitems\fR
that the function-stack of each thread can reach. Value \fB0\fR sets the default.

.SH AUTHOR
Riccardo Musso \- smudge.language@gmail.com, musso.riccardo2001@gmail.com
